*: add release notes for v2.0.0-RC (#275)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/releases/2.0.0-rc.md

- Add a `--remove-meta` option to the `start-task` command to clean up metadata related to data migration tasks
- Support dropping columns with single-column indices
- Support automatically cleaning up temporary files after a successful full import
- Support checking whether the table to be migrated has a primary key or a unique key before starting a migration task
- Support connectivity check between dmctl and DM-master while starting dmctl
- Support connectivity check for downstream TiDB during the execution of `start-task`/`check-task`
- Support replacing task names with task configuration files for some commands such as `pause-task`
- Support logs in `json` format for DM-master and DM-worker components
- Remove the call stack information and redundant fields in the error message returned by `query-status`
- Improve the binlog position information of the upstream database returned by `query-status`
- Improve the processing of `auto resume` when an error is encountered during the full export

## Bug fixes

- Fix the issue of goroutine leak after executing `stop-task`

> - Fix the issue that the task may not be paused after executing `pause-task`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the task might not be paused after executing `pause-task`
```

> - Fix the issue that the checkpoint may not be saved correctly in the initial stage of incremental replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the checkpoint might not be saved correctly in the initial stage of incremental replication
```

> - Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type could not be correctly handled during incremental replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type is incorrectly handled during incremental replication
```

## Detailed bug fixes and changes

- Support high availability for data migration tasks [#473](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/473)
- Add an optimistic mode for sharding DDL statements [#568](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/568)
- Add the `handle-error` command to handle errors during DDL incremental replication [#850](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/850)

> - Add a `workaround` field to the error returned by `query-status` to describe how to manually handle it [#753](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/753)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a `workaround` field in the error returned by `query-status` to describe the error handling method [#753](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/753)
```

Author: done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/275/commits/3116af02ac4be0a70d1c768cfa868eaab61f470b.

- Improve the monitoring dashboards and alert rules [#853](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/853)

> - Replace mydumper with dumpling as the full export unit [#540](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/540)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace Mydumper with Dumpling as the full export unit [#540](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/540)
```

Author: done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/275/commits/3116af02ac4be0a70d1c768cfa868eaab61f470b.

- Support the GTID mode when performing incremental replication to the downstream [#521](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/521)
- Support TLS connections between upstream and downstream databases, and between DM components [#569](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/569)
- Support the incremental replication scenarios where the table of the downstream has more columns than that of the upstream [#379](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/379)
- Add a `--remove-meta` option to the `start-task` command to clean up metadata related to data migration tasks [#651](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/651)
- Support dropping columns with single-column indices [#801](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/801)
- Support automatically cleaning up temporary files after a successful full import [#770](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/770)

> - Support checking whether the table to be migrated has a primary key or an unique key before starting a migration task [#870](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/870)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support checking whether the table to be migrated has a primary key or a unique key before starting a migration task [#870](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/870)
```

Author: done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/275/commits/3116af02ac4be0a70d1c768cfa868eaab61f470b.

> - Support the connectivity check between dmctl and DM-master while starting dmctl [#786](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/786)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support connectivity check between dmctl and DM-master while starting dmctl [#786](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/786)
```

Author: done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/275/commits/3116af02ac4be0a70d1c768cfa868eaab61f470b.

> - Support connectivity check for downstream TiDB during `start-task`/`check-task` [#769](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/769) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support connectivity check for downstream TiDB during the execution of `start-task`/`check-task` [#769](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/769) 
```

Author: done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-dm/pull/275/commits/3116af02ac4be0a70d1c768cfa868eaab61f470b.

- Support replacing task names with task configuration files for some commands such as `pause-task` [#854](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/854)
- Support logs in `json` format for DM-master and DM-worker components [#808](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/808)
- Remove the call stack information in the error message returned by `query-status` [#746](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/746)
- Remove the redundant fields in the error message returned by `query-status` [#771](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/771)
- Improve the binlog position information of the upstream database returned by `query-status` [#830](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/830)
- Improve the processing of `auto resume` when an error is encountered during the full export [#872](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/872)

> - Fix the issue of goroutine leak after executing `stop-task` [#731](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/731)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue of Goroutine leak after executing `stop-task` [#731](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/731)
```

> - Fix the issue that the task may not be paused after executing `pause-task` [#644](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/644)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the task might not be paused after executing `pause-task` [#644](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/644)
```

> - Fix the issue that the checkpoint may not be saved correctly in the initial stage of incremental replication [#758](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/758)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the checkpoint might not be saved correctly in the initial stage of incremental replication [#758](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/758)
```

> - Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type could not be correctly handled during incremental replication [#876](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/876)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type is correctly handled during incremental replication [#876](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/876)
```

> - Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type is correctly handled during incremental replication [#876](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/876)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that the `BIT` data type is incorrectly handled during incremental replication [#876](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/876)
```

---

> title: DM 2.0.0-RC Release Notes

Reviewer: 按照 TiDB 的发版格式，RC 大标题应该是 `DM 2.0 RC Release Notes`，可参考 https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/release-4.0.0-rc，https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/release-3.1.0-rc。

multi_level_url: releases/2.0.0-rc
---

> # DM 2.0.0-RC Release Notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# DM 2.0 RC Release Notes
```

Release date: August 21, 2020

DM version: 2.0.0-rc

## Improvements

- Support high availability for data migration tasks
- Add an optimistic mode for sharding DDL statements
- Add the `handle-error` command to handle errors during DDL incremental replication
- Add a `workaround` field to the error returned by `query-status` to describe how to manually handle it
- Improve the monitoring dashboards and alert rules
- Replace mydumper with dumpling as the full export unit
- Support the GTID mode when performing incremental replication to the downstream
- Support TLS connections between upstream and downstream databases, and between DM components
- Support the incremental replication scenarios where the table of the downstream has more columns than that of the upstream
- Add a `--remove-meta` option to the `start-task` command to clean up metadata related to data migration tasks

> - Support dropping columns with the index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support dropping columns with single-column indices
```

- Add an optimistic mode for sharding DDL statements [#568](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/568)
- Add the `handle-error` command to handle errors during DDL incremental replication [#850](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/850)
- Add a `workaround` field to the error returned by `query-status` to describe how to manually handle it [#753](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/753)
- Improve the monitoring dashboards and alert rules [#853](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/853)
- Replace mydumper with dumpling as the full export unit [#540](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/540)
- Support the GTID mode when performing incremental replication to the downstream [#521](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/521)
- Support TLS connections between upstream and downstream databases, and between DM components [#569](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/569)
- Support the incremental replication scenarios where the table of the downstream has more columns than that of the upstream [#379](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/379)
- Add a `--remove-meta` option to the `start-task` command to clean up metadata related to data migration tasks [#651](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/651)

> - Support dropping columns with the index [#801](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/801)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support dropping columns with single-column indices [#801](https://github.com/pingcap/dm/pull/801)
```
